hello we're getting everybody thanks for
tuning in to the Chinese sayings podcast
lászló Montgomery here with another Chun
you and like the past five episodes I
have for all of you another musical
Chinese saying go shun Lee O'Shea one of
them are better known Chong you but who
am I to say I didn't grow up hearing
this one and before we lay this saying
down on the dissecting table let me
first say it comes from a source that
we've used before this one comes
straight to us from the Lee search would
show the discourses of Lupul way if you
could remember from way back in season 1
episode 2 I told you the story of tons
y'all sure doc how can you forget the
Marquess of Shu who for the sake of some
nice swag invited the Qin state to build
the stone cattle road and come down to
his perfect little world down an amazing
such one province with its pandas tea
and spicy food and before you knew it
this shoe ruler wasn't the ruler anymore
anyway same source for this one today go
Sean Leo Shui it's not only a famous
Chung you it's also one of the most
famous Chinese songs from ancient times
here's what it means
Gao Xiang Yosh a Gao means tall high or
lofty Michonne and is a mountain Gao
Xiang lofty mountains Leo means to flow
and Shui means water or in this example
Leo Shui the flowing waters of let's say
a river Gao Xiang Li okay lofty
mountains and flowing water hmm
that must mean something so let's get
right into the story well if this one
didn't come from the warring States
Period then it must have come from the
Spring and Autumn Period which preceded
the warring States period there are two
stars getting equal billing in this
production you boy yah and join to the
Chi Yu booyah better known perhaps
simply by his given name of booyah was
it official from the state of Jin
station next
and Chu who was also a great musician
and his instrument was the chin that the
zither our loot the same exact
instrument from Doheny oton Shan playing
a zither to an ox how can we forget that
one this story takes place in the state
of Chu in the city of Hanyang today one
of the tri-cities that makes up the
mighty city of Wuhan you boya was there
as an envoy from his home state of Jin
one gorgeous evening under the moonlight
boy yah was out in his boat playing his
music and in the distance he spied a
rustic woodsman in the forest quietly
listening very intently boyo at once
judge this book by its cover and thought
how can such a rough-looking fellow as
this one who obviously isn't from the
city and has no formal education how how
can he possibly appreciate my music so
boy I called out to him and asked this
guy his name and the man replied Jones
of the Chi Yu boy I thought he have a
little fun at mr. Chung's expense and
asked him I bet you can't name that tune
I just played without a moment's
hesitation jones's she answered who
doesn't know that one comb soucouyant
wait
it's Confucius crying over the death of
Yin wait boy I was sort of taken aback
by such a bucolic looking fellow knowing
this and you know so he pressed him on
the and the technical aspects of the
piece this this man of the woods was
able to explain quite expertly I might
add what this musical work was was all
about so boy once again he was utterly
taken aback by Jones's cheese musical
knowledge boy I said the joints of the
cheek how about this one and at once he
began to play a beautiful tune that he
had written that suggested tall
mountains chunks that she closed his
eyes and said I could tell right away
this one depicts lofty mountains you boy
yeah then played a tune that sounded of
flowing rivers and tones and she said
swiftly flows the water of the river
boya put down his chin
exclaimed dang I completely misjudged
you you really know my music I never met
someone who has your grasp of what I'm
playing
you know people listen to me perform but
they just don't get it but you you know
and the two became fast friends and
beside the river they talked on and on
about music and boy I really believed he
had met his soulmate and these two you
boy and junks Lachie right there on the
banks of that River went on to become
sworn brothers and furthermore the two
men agreed henceforth every year they
would meet at the same spot and talk
about music and enjoy each other's
company so so a year later to the day
boy I was still serving in the state of
Chu and thereupon went to that spot
along the river where he had met his
sworn brother chun-soo Chee he got there
first and at once began playing but
after a while it became late and no
chunks of XI so he made inquiries and
learned that tragically chunks the Chi
head well not long ago died of an
illness you boya was struck with emotion
and such grief and he went to Johnson
she's gravesite and played couch on
lyosha one last time and when he
finished with his tears flowing he took
his zipper into his hands and smashed it
on the rocks that line the riverbank
vowing that never again will he play his
music the only one who truly understood
him and all the meaning and subtleties
of his musicianship was now gone from
his life he never picked up an
instrument again so when you use the
term Gao Xiang Li okay not only is it an
exclamation of fine and beautiful music
you know comparing whatever you just
heard to you boy Yas spring and autumn
classical pieces it has a double meaning
thanks to the story of you boy yawns
Jones Cecchi taken from the discourses
of Lupo way the loser twin show this
Cheung you also do
scribes true and pure friendship or two
soul mates two friends whose bond was
special and uncommon this piece of music
is very well known to classical Chinese
musicians and can be played on the cool
Jung Peabody inand probably other
instruments as well you can go to
youtube or yoku or any of these video
streaming services and find there are
many many videos of musicians playing
Gao Xiang Li lei hear it for yourself
and see if you are moved by this as much
as John said she was so that's our
Chinese saying for this time another
musical one at that you boy yah and
junks the Qi music was their bond and
the spirit of their friendship was
manifested in their mutual understanding
and love of music until the next time
this is your humble host and narrator
Laszlo Montgomery coming to you as usual
but not always from the lovely little
town of Los Angeles located between San
Diego and Santa Barbara you're welcome
to go check out the other offerings at
tea cup media the China history podcast
and China vintage shower flying cafe
Pacific you could listen to this fine
program there too tucked away inside
their award-winning in-flight
entertainment system okay now enough
grandstanding see you next time everyone
you